>> Brian Holt: So
we are gonna use transition.
Luckily, the code is actually only mildly
more complex, but actually not really.
It's a pretty chill API to use, and
I judge all of my APIs on chillness.
Okay, so we are gonna go to apps.JSX.
We're gonna bring in one more hook up
here called this lovely useTransition.
And rather than have this state
that's tracking is pending,
we're gonna say use transition here.
This doesn't need anything.
And then rather being set is pending,
it's called start transition.
>> Brian Holt: So essentially what start
transition does is it's like, okay,
you're gonna give me a function.
Whenever this function completes,
my transition is finished.
So it'll start when you call it.
And it'll end whenever it ends.
Okay, so in our get new score here,
rather than say set is pending here,
we're just gonna delete that, and we set
the set is pending down there as well.
And then we're just gonna wrap
all of this in a transition.
So we're gonna say, startTransition,
we're gonna give that
a function which is async,okay?
And then inside of there, we're gonna say
const newScore = Await getScore like that.
And then We could, in theory,
just do this, call it good,
and I would say in this UI,
because newScore is actually so
small, this would never be a problem.
There technically is the smallest of
race conditions here, what happens if
this setting score causes React to have
a huge re-render underneath it, and
then you have, like, another API call
return during this huge re-render.
In theory, that window exists now this is
so small, and this, this UI is so small,
this would never happen, but you can
actually get away from that totally and
just say, startTransition again.
>> Brian Holt: And
now there's no race condition.
So you can nest transitions
all the way down.
You're basically saying this is about
to happen, this could take time.
Please wait until this completes.
So this is actually what
exists in the React docks.
Again, this is kinda up to you.
If this was really the app
that I was shipping, and
it was this small, I probably
wouldn't 'cause it's unnecessary.
I don't know, force a habit.
I might do it anyway, but
that's kinda up to you.
But that's why you see
that in the React docs.
Yeah, this one took me a while.
When I read that for
the first time in the React docs,
when I was reading about transition,
I was like, Why did they nest this twice?
This makes no sense to me.
And then once you realize, actually
especially with like, high priority and
low priority re-renders, it can actually
take, I don't know, tens of milliseconds.
And in theory,
you can run into a problem there, but
here we're probably two milliseconds right
where it's the chances are just nil.
Let's go look, first of all.
I didn't put this in my notes, but
you do need to drop the disabled,
cuz now we can be able to change it.
So on line 29 here, delete that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now this is responsive, right?
And I can change it a bunch of times and
no matter what,
it's still gonna end up on the right game,
eventually.
So we know game one is the 404s
versus the 500s, right?
So I can change this a bunch of times and
then I wanna end up on Game 1.
These API requests are all
completing in the background, right?
It's not dropping them.
That's just how these things work, right?
But it's ignoring all of these state
changes until it gets the final
one that the user changes
because of transitions.
Pretty cool, right?
So we kinda sidestep this entire problem.
And our code really didn't
get a lot more complicated.
In some ways, the transition syntax here
is actually kinda nice cuz you identify,
here's a busy part of my code, and
I know that this takes a while, so
I'm deferring some of this stuff
to lower priority renders.
Does it make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, would best practice
be to add some sort of cancellation
to the requests that we
don't need to complete.
Theoretically, a user
could just arrow up and
down a bunch of times and
quickly fire off a bunch of requests.
>> Brian Holt: I'm trying to envision
how I would try and do that.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't there an abort
controller that you can use?
>> Brian Holt: There is.
To what end, right?
You're already ignoring the request.
The point of the abort control is that
you don't call the the follow up like
callbacks, right?
And in this case, you're kinda just
ignoring them implicitly, right?
I suppose if you were doing
a ton of processes afterwards-
>> Speaker 2: Long-running task or
hitting a database,
>> Speaker 3: kinda debalance the calls
then and cancel the debalance.
Because in this scenario, once you
hit the button, you sent the request.
If you waited for
100 milliseconds to send the request,
you would stop the quick
arrow button from sending it.
>> Brian Holt: I could
see this being helpful.
What you're talking about.
I could see that being helpful.
It's like, if I had, right here,
a ton of code here.
That was busy, right?
And I'm trying to prevent
[INAUDIBLE] that kinda stuff.
Or maybe, honestly,
I don't even know that these
functions get run, to be honest with you.
Honestly, let's try.
>> Brian Holt: To succinctly answer
your question, I've never had to.
>> Brian Holt: So
if I let's just open our console here, and
whenever it loads, it says hello, right?
Let's just make it so it adds like
date.now or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so it should say
hello and it should say date.now.
And I'm just gonna change
this a bunch of times.
>> Brian Holt: So it is getting run, you
can see there, these are all being run,
but it's just ignoring all of them.
So I could see doing something
like there as like, hey,
are you still in flight
doing something else?
Don't do this like post-processing
of the data, today I learned.
>> Brian Holt: What's
the best way to do that?
I could you just like, look,
let's look at the is pending.
>> Brian Holt: So, it's pending here.
Probably still true.
No, it's false, okay.
>> Brian Holt: So these are still true,
and then this comes out.
The other end is true.
Okay, so
that's actually not a reliable way either.
I don't know,
I'd have to think about this.
I haven't really thought.
Maybe just use state right to keep
track of, like is something in flight?
Yeah, it's good question.
Normally, this is enough, though.
You probably just try and keep this stuff
out of the out of the transition path
right, and then just kinda have that all
happen, maybe during your renders, right?